On the latest Masters in Business
podcast, strap yourself in another great
one, Dmitri Baljasny. He's co-founder of
the hedge fund Baljasny Asset
Management. Very few people have seen
the world of hedge funds develop from a
trading perspective the way Dmitri has.
Dmitri Baljasny, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thanks for having me, Barry. And we got
to say hello to Mike on the way in.
We'll we'll talk about that a little
later.
I'm fascinated by your background. You
immigrated from the Ukraine at age
seven. How did that affect your
perspective in terms of taking risk and
just looking at the world?
I think it was probably
very formative in building a thick skin.
Right? So, back
in Kiev,
uh we're living in communist Soviet
Union.
Parents would stand in line to buy a jug
of milk for a couple hours.
I'd never
been in a car until I was in the US.
Never taken a flight until we
immigrated. Um so, very different life
there. A lot of um
discrimination from a religious
perspective and ethnic perspective being
Jewish in uh Kiev at the time.
And then coming here and
didn't speak the language. Uh
Different type of discrimination of
being Russian during the height of the
Cold War. Although, never really thought
of ourselves as Russian. Um so, it
builds a you know, I think it builds
character and builds a
you know, perseverance and a thick skin
to be able to deal with the difficulties
and figure stuff out. You go to college
at Loyola University in Chicago where
you study business. What was the career
plan?
Uh I wanted to invest. So, I did a lot
of sales type jobs in high school uh
because I figured out that was the only
way you could get paid because you got
commission as opposed to salary as a
kid.
Um but I wanted to transition from
selling stocks as a stock broker which I
was doing in college to uh trading and
taking risk and and investing. I wasn't
sure how I was going to do that in what
format. Uh but I was interested in
trading and investing from a young age.
Uh read, you know, Market Wizards, um
you know, followed the careers of the
top traders at the time. Applied to
every hedge fund I could find. Uh and I
was lucky enough to answer a newspaper
ad of all things uh when Schonfeld
Securities ran a newspaper ad in Chicago
when they opened up that office. It was
the one and only time they actually ran
a newspaper ad. So, I was lucky that I
was following the wanted ads at the
seeing, you know, traders wanted
Schonfeld Securities. Uh they were down
on Wall Street back in the mid-90s. So,
you begin trading for Schonfeld in the
mid-1990s.
What was the trading environment like?
What were you doing for them on the
desk? Well, at the time they were
looking for people who didn't have a lot
of preconceived notions and
um
kind of systems and strategies that they
really
thought worked because they wanted to
start them from scratch and kind of
teach them their methodology which was
working well at the time. Uh and that
fit me very well because I was making a
lot of money for at the time in
commissions as a broker, but I was
promptly losing it trading
because I didn't know what I was doing
from a trading standpoint. You had to
support your trading habit with
commission sales.
>> exactly. Exactly. And so,
I would give people lots of great advice
and then proceed to go do the opposite
in in my own trading. Um so, I needed to
go somewhere to learn um a method that
had more structure and discipline. And
so, uh they started you with a very
small amount of capital uh but and very
tight risk limits in terms of uh you
know, what you could trade, when you
could trade, how you know, what size you
could trade. Um and from there, once you
showed some proficiency, your risk box
would expand.
Meaning more capital, little little
looser reins on what you could do and
how long you could hold things. That's
right. And so, I started with, you know,
very short time periods, very small
risk. Uh didn't make any money for the
first year uh which was difficult
because the salary was zero.
Uh but after that, I started kind of
getting the hang of it and making money
pretty consistently. How how did you
work your way through the various roles
at Schonfeld cuz eventually you end up
allocating for their internal funds,
right? Yeah, so it was a
almost completely flat management
structure.
So, at one point there were over a
thousand people on the trading side. And
there was a handful of people in senior
management and, you know, virtually no
people in middle management. It was
very, very flat. Uh and so, you were
basically a trader. You could run a
group of traders
or you were just managing and not really
trading. And so, I kind of um
worked my way up from a pure trading
position where after uh I was successful
for three or four years, uh I went to
Steven and asked him
if I could start hiring people to trade
some of my risk. Uh and he was kind
enough to say, "Sure, if you're willing
to pay for them, you can hire them." Uh
and that was good enough for me. And so,
I did the same thing. I ran an ad in the
paper and I started hiring the initial
traders, some of whom are still with us
today, 25 years later.
>> Wow. So,
>> Uh and then
I would allocate some of my risk to
them. Uh and then as that became more
successful, I hired more traders,
eventually analysts, eventually
portfolio managers. And we spun off into
a division. And while I was doing that,
Steve gave me the opportunity to
co-invest in a portfolio of hedge fund
managers, external managers that we
would allocate to. And that was a great
experience. I got to meet a lot of the
top hedge fund guys at the time. So,
from building a whole division at
Schonfeld, what led you to found
Baljasny Asset Management? I was always
very entrepreneurial.
And so,
again, it was like a very flat firm. So,
I always felt like I was building my own
business. And our strategy started to
divert from the rest of the firm. Like
we became more fundamental. We were
holding things longer. We needed to meet
with company managements. We needed
sell-side coverage. Uh and so, that led
to separate office space, separate
strategies, different types of PMs and
traders that we wanted to hire. And
eventually it led to needing to take in
external capital because it was a more
um
higher capacity, you know, type of
strategy that demanded external capital.
And so, we gradually moved from, you
know, an internal group to a division to
a proprietary funded, you know, hedge
fund to a traditional, you know,
externally funded hedge fund over a few
years. So, we'll talk a little later
about some of the technology that you
guys have built internally. But mid-90s
had to be an incredible environment for
trading. And it seemed like every month
it was a whole different set of
technology that came down the pipe. Tell
us about your experiences
in the 90s
and are there any parallels to what's
going on today?
Well, I I think the world has moved, you
know, tremendously in terms of the
trading technologies that the people are
using today. When I think about at the
time that I
first started as a broker, this is
really going to date me, but we had you
know, one monitor that would be on a
little carousel that you would spin
around between four different brokers
when you needed a quote. Right? And when
I started trading at Schonfeld, we had a
person whose job it was to be the
printer reader. And so, you didn't get
your fills or fills electronically,
you'd get your fills coming back on a
printer. And some poor guy's job was to
read out your prints. Uh you know, so
you would know where you got filled. So,
you know, you contrast that with all the
AI and data, you know, technology today
that that we and others use for for
trading and investing and it's just, you
know, tremendously different world. Uh
from
uh the overall kind of technologies
coming through the pipe, the internet I
would say was uh you know,
bigger change in terms of going from,
you know, very little interaction I
would say with the with technology for
most companies at the time
and really most individual people to,
you know, tremendously kind of jumping
in and trying to figure it out. Um
although I think AI will likely be a
larger, you know, more substantive
change over time. We're coming from a
place where everybody's already uh you
know, enmeshed in technology in so many
different ways, whether you're an
individual with your your phone, your
computers, your laptops or uh uh you
know, your your meta glasses, etc. or a
company with, you know, zillions of
engineers.
So, I think it'll be more profound over
the long term, but the change feels a
little bit less than it did at the time.
I mean, there's no doubt the internet
was a sea change. Being able to plug
into the hive mind was huge. Mobile was
pretty big. But it sounds like you're
saying artificial intelligence has
potential to be even a bigger change
agent than
>> Yeah, I think so. I think over time I
think in terms of actual usefulness over
time and ability to
make you better and smarter in lots of
different tasks at work, at home, uh
etc. Like I I I I use these apps, you
know, every day and they're still, you
know, very new and rough. So, you but
you could see at the rate of improvement
uh if you project it out and you think
about like where these are going to be
in 5, 10, 15 years, like I think it'll
be, you know, pretty transformative. One
of the things that really separates
Baljasny Asset Management from many
other large multi-strat hedge funds are
the amount of technology that you
develop internally. Tools, apps,
research, databases. Tell a little bit
Tell Discuss a little bit about what's
it like to constantly being on the
bleeding edge of technology.
>> Sure.
Uh so, this was a big
uh evolution for us, I would say, over
the last, you know, six, seven, eight
years. First 15 plus years, we mostly
used external technologies and we had a
pretty small
internal tech team. And the idea was
basically give people
all the support that they needed, all
the supporting type of tools,
but do as much off the shelf as you can.
And
over time as we expanded
different strategies and added, you
know, macro and commodities and quant
and these more technologically
sophisticated strategies,
we really found that we needed to build
a lot more things internally. And so now
today we have 500-plus people in
technology and another 100-plus people
in in
data teams and AI teams.
And we build a lot of really outstanding
tools that not only support the
investing teams, but really enable a lot
of the investing functions, whether it's
trading, research, risk, even
operational in some aspects.
When we have folks come over from other
other firms, a lot of times they're
because we don't really advertise it
that much, a lot of times people are
kind of blown away by some of the things
that we've developed. So when I think of
technology, I think of things, when you
say trading, execution, the ability to
get fast execution.
But risk is a big challenge. How do you
identify how much risk is within a
portfolio and given that you're
multi-strat, how much do the does the
risk
cancel each other out? How do you do
that analysis? That seems like a moving
target.
>> really important. So first the
overall philosophy, right? Like this is
a slugging type of business, right? So
if you
if you contrast it with like
high-frequency trading, which is a hit
rate type of business, right? You're
going to have 99% of your trades or
whatever are going to be profitable or
tiny loss, right? So you just kind of do
tiny, tiny, tiny and repeat, repeat,
repeat, right? This is more of a
slugging type of business. So if we have
PMs and we have 170 investing teams at
the moment, right? When you hire
>> 170 170. And so when you hire an
investing team, chances are depending on
their track record, maybe 75% of them
will wind up working out. If they have a
lower track record, they're coming as
like a former analyst making a
transition to the PM, maybe it'll be
50/50, right?
But if you can control the risk, you
might lose, you know, 10 million, 20
million, 30 million on somebody who
doesn't work out kind of life-to-date in
their performance. But the ones that do
work out, you're increasing their
capital, you're growing their team,
and they'll hopefully be with you for
10, 20-plus years, and you might make,
you know, hundreds and hundreds of
millions off of them, right? So
how that plays into risk, right? In
order to enable the slugging, you have
to have very well-defined risk boxes
within which people will operate to
enable them to bet on the things that
they're really good at betting on and
try to exclude as much of the other
stuff as possible. So for every
strategy, we'll have, you know, stops,
we'll have uh
vol targets, vol limits, we'll have
stress limits, liquidity limits, etc.
And you create this box that's
completely transparent and in
partnership with the portfolio manager
that you're hiring and customize it and
iterate it. And then as their strategy
evolves and there's new opportunities,
you're, you know, adding to it,
subtracting from it all the time, etc.
The idea is to create this this
you know, platform for them within which
they can create like a very steady,
growing, you know, alpha stream that
really plays to their individual
strengths. You know, you mentioned
Market Wizards at the beginning and I
can't remember I read all of them over
the years, the first one a couple of
times. I don't remember which trader it
was, but the thing that stayed with me
was it you win-loss record isn't what
matters. It's how much do you lose when
you lose relative to how much you're
gaining when you win.
>> Exactly.
>> And and you could lose three-quarters of
the time if you're losing a little bit,
but the winners are big winners.
>> Yeah. Net net, that's a big win.
>> Yeah, we find our it it varies by
strategies, but if you think about
equities, in equities we find portfolio
managers who have hit rates in the 50s
with decent slugging could be very, very
good.
Right? If somebody's got a hit rate in
the upper 50s with decent slugging, like
that's, you know, that's an all-star. Or
somebody could be more like 50/50, but
they have very good slugging, you know,
that that works. It's hard to find
somebody with, you know, 25% hit rate
and enough slugging to kind of overcome
that because there's just there's just
too many reps. Too much churn. But in
some other strategies, if you have, you
know, commodities for example or
directional macro, there you can have
like even a lower hit rate if they're
very good at sizing, right? Because they
have a smaller number of bets at any
given time and they're trying to find
like a few larger, bigger trades.
>> Pyramid the winners, ride the trends all
the way out. Really interesting. So you
start the firm in 2001,
really the beginning of a lost decade.
We didn't get back over prior highs in
every asset class pretty much till 2013.
What was it like launching right into
the teeth of that dot-com collapse? It
was a great trading environment
actually. So we we did very well.
At the time we were running a lot less
capital. We started with $40 million, so
but
the markets were less efficient. We were
predominantly equity long-short. There
was a lot of dispersion. There was a lot
of things that were unwinding from the
bubble in both directions. We were able
to take advantage of that and really
grow the grow the business. What was the
biggest surprise to you in terms of the
direction the business grew and evolved?
I would say in those years there wasn't
anything particularly surprising and uh
you know,
2008,
we made people a little bit of money,
but we had 50% redemptions, so that was
a bit surprising
and not particularly pleasant. They They
people just clients just panicked and
said I need liquidity. They needed
liquidity because we didn't we chose not
to gate people. We had the the option in
our docs, but we we decided we were
liquid and we actually went to cash in
Q4 of '08. Did Did that cash come
flying back in '09? Yeah, it took a few
years actually, but eventually yes,
eventually we got some credit for that,
but
>> If you're positive in '08, what was '08
down 37%? Something like that.
>> like 50 bucks or something. Oh, really?
That's a win. Anything in the green is a
win.
>> That was it. So that was surprising. But
outside of that it wasn't
anything too crazy. Really really
interesting. And currently your title is
chief investment officer. How do you
balance that role while simultaneously
running a firm of 2,300 employees? Well,
I think number one, I have great
partners and and great management team,
so that helps a lot. We have 20 partners
today and a lot of top senior
managements across all the departments.
Besides that, I don't think there's a
tremendous amount of different
difference in the hedge fund business
between being a CIO and a CEO. It's kind
of commingled type of function because
what are you doing as a CEO? Like you're
trying to figure out where to make money
in the hedge fund, right?
So
that's basically how I spend my time is
like trying to optimize our investment
strategies. And that really includes
pretty much everything you need to do
from a business standpoint. You know,
how do you get the best people?
Where do you have edge? How do you build
your competitive mode around a strategy?
How do you break in and wedge into a new
strategy and then how do you grow it
from there? Again, that's going to go
down to finding the best people and
enabling them to execute in that area.
How do you support them with the best
infrastructure and technology? So you
have to work with all the departments to
figure out how to how to do that. So The
the one thing that continues to surprise
me doing these interviews is how many
people have said talent acquisition is
absolutely the single most important
thing they do. It sounds like you're in
that camp as well.
>> Definitely. It all start It all starts
with talent, right? And the talent
starts with why are they going to come
to you, right? Like how are you going to
differentiate? And that was always kind
of the starting point from 25 years ago
because even at that time we were
competing with firms that were, you
know, 25 times our size, right? And so
how are you going to compete? And you're
not going to write the largest check for
somebody to show up, right? So you
really got to compete on enabling them
to be the most successful over time,
right? So that's
you know, the insights, the
collaboration across strategies, the
culture that that you can foster,
um
helping them build their teams, helping
them build the resources and
infrastructure around them,
coaching, learning from other people's
mistakes, you know, having a very
transparent environment. All these
things that each individually might not
be that important, but when you add them
all up, it really makes the difference
over the arc of somebody's career. And
and to put a little flesh on those
bones,
Baupost
Asset Management has won numerous awards
in terms of best places to work in money
management including taking the top
award from Pensions and Investments best
places to work. How much of this is comp
and how much of this is corporate
culture beyond just the dollars? I think
comp is always part of it. Like you
certainly have to be competitive and you
want to run a meritocracy. So the top
people that are really driving the
performance of the fund on the business
side and the investing side should be
super well compensated and have
partnership opportunities. But besides
that, I think the culture can lead to
the performance, right? The culture is
not just it's a nice place and people
are nice to you. Like that's great, but
if you have like a culture that's
really,
uh, you know, driven, but at the same
time collaborative, right? And where
people are collegial,
um, but they also push each other, and
they're also constantly trying to figure
out like better ways of doing things,
right? And
want to succeed themselves and be the
best, but also they want the person next
to them to succeed and make the firm
better, right? Like if you can create
that type of culture, like that really,
uh,
is one that high performers are going to
want to
work in and thrive at.
Hm. Really really interesting. So, so
let's talk a little bit about high
performance. You operate a
multi-strategy platform. When I hear
multi-strat, I think fundamental equity,
macro,
um, commodity  futures trading,
arbitrage,
uh, systematic quant. You got it. Am I
missing any? That's That's a nice list.
>> are those are the major strategies. Uh,
they all have, uh, lots of sub
components, so um, you know, we have an
arbitrage business, for example, that
will include, you know, converts and
credit long short and uh, merger
arbitrage and all all all, you know, a
dozen different strategies, right? Uh,
in commodities, we'll have folks that
are trading futures.
Uh, directionally, we'll have folks that
are doing a lot of RV type tradings. Uh,
we'll have, uh,
uh, physical commodities now that we're
building out. Um, so,
uh, all these strategies have lots of
sub strategies associated with them, but
generally that's the, uh, you know, the
right idea. And you're constantly trying
to, uh,
uh, enable the next set of strategies,
right? If you can execute well in the
ones that you're in this year, you have
the option to figure out how to expand
them, which might be more dollars in the
stuff you're doing well, but also what
does that give you the right to compete
in that's adjacent? And we're always
trying to kind of figure out what is the
next thing. Hm. Really interesting.
There was an article, I'm trying to
remember which, uh, publication I saw it
in,
uh, that claimed you hired a trader with
a $50 million pay package from a
competitor. Um,
is that remotely close to the sort of
pay packages? And how much does a trader
have to generate in profits to qualify
for a $50 million package?
>> Sure. So, uh, you have to remember that
the size of capital the folks are
running these days has grown a lot. And
so what publications, uh, like to do to
get people to read the articles, right?
Is put in large dollars as opposed to,
you know, percentages.
>> Denominator blindness, they leave out
the context, and it just looks like a
big round number.
>> Yeah, so you have like these headlines
all the time, um, one on how much people
get paid to how much somebody made or
lost, and you know, if you have
something that says, you know, trader
XYZ lost, you know, $50 million, right?
And that's like, "Wow, that sounds like
a giant number." But you have to
remember, we're managing 28 billion,
right? Um, That's a normal drawdown in a
bad week.
>> Yeah, I mean, a typical portfolio
manager, right? Might be managing a
couple billion in in gross market value,
right? Right. So, you know, that's 2 and
1/2%, which is not good, but it's not,
you know,
>> a disaster. No, like that's kind of the
fluctuation that that that you're going
to get, right? And so from a hiring
standpoint, it's the same thing. If
you're hiring a a trader
with a $50 million pay package, for
example, one, that pay package is
composed of lots of different things.
It's not all It's not just, you know,
here's $50 million.
>> Including his P&L, for sure.
>> Yeah, like that includes, you know, it
might include a guarantee for for the
time that the person is out of the
market. It might include, uh, budget for
hiring out their team, right? That's a
lot of these teams are 5, 10, in some
cases 15 people, so that's expensive.
And it also might include, um,
extra, uh, upside incentives, which are
only paid out if the person delivers a
certain amount of P&L.
So, you know, they kind of like print
one number, but it's but it's actually
like lots of different components. Um,
usually with that type of number, you're
budgeting that person to generate P&L of
a hundred million plus, uh, a year.
Uh, the mission has
>> to Yeah, the mission has a track record
of doing that, and if And if you're
right on that, uh, that leads to very
healthy returns, uh, net to our
investor, which, you know, we've
delivered over time. That That's the
game. Um, you have over 300 analysts and
170 PMs.
Um, how many different teams do you Are
you guys running? 170 PMs, is that 170
specific strategies?
>> So, it's 170 teams. Um, so within the
equities business, for example, you'll
have like 70 teams, uh, which sounds
like a lot, but you have to remember
that that's split across, you know,
three, uh, distinct equities businesses
that all have like a different, uh,
front end. And it's also split across,
uh, offices all over the world, and
folks are, you know, based in London
trading Europe, based in Hong Kong or
Singapore or Japan, you know, trading
Asia. Uh, so it's still fairly
specialized. Mhm. Um, and each one of
those teams will have a mandate where
this is the group of stocks that they're
focused on in the case of equities, or
this is the macro strategy in, you know,
RV or emerging markets or rates or
directional that they're focused on in
macro, or this person focused on, you
know, trading gas or trading power in in
commodities, and they'll build a team of
sub specialists, uh, analysts around
that. Hm. Really interesting. So, I
mentioned earlier you've scaled up to
$28 billion.
Where does the general,
um, management strategy and style begin
to,
um, get altered just by the size? At
what point does that Uh, we've seen a
number of firms at 100, 200 billion
dollars, and just the sheer heft becomes
challenging. Uh, you can't generate
alpha at that scale, or at least not the
same alpha.
How large can this get comfortably? It's
hard to say. Um,
I think that's a function of how markets
develop over time. So, if you have more
companies,
active capital markets, the world is
growing, more places to trade in, uh,
you know, more credit instruments, more
equity instruments, more macro
instruments, then there's there's kind
of more to do. So, if I think of the
subset of strategies that we trade
today,
a lot of these things weren't
significant businesses, you know, 10
years ago or 20 years ago. So, a
strategy like merger arbitrage has been
around a long time. A strategy like
index rebalancing really got going the
last 10, 15 years, right? Uh, you know,
power trading in the commodities
markets, right? Not a lot of people
doing that 20 years ago. So,
a lot of these things go from very small
strategies to much larger markets, you
know, over time, and that enables you to
run more vol there, you know, increasing
your capacity. The way that we go about
it is
every, uh, year, and we update it
throughout the year,
we measure our capacity for, you know,
this year and the following. And so we
look at bottom-up by each team, like how
much can they grow at a steady pace? We
don't want to people to grow too fast.
And we don't want people to stay
stagnant, right? Like you want to find a
healthy pace of growth as you're
expanding your coverage, as you're
getting used to running larger dollar
amounts and dealing with those
constraints.
And we look at the recruiting.
So, where can we expand? Who is coming
in? What does the pipeline kind of look
like? You know, we discount that cuz not
everyone's going to work out. But you
add those numbers together, and that
gives you a sense of what the growth
path is likely to be. And over time,
that's averaged about 20, 25% a year,
uh, you know, capacity growth. So, you
mentioned you're looking both internally
and externally at recruiting. When
you're looking internally,
how do you identify and nurture talents?
How can you tell when, "Hey, this person
started out as a trader or a PM, but
they really seem to have skills and can
manage a larger group." That That seems
like a really challenging thing to do.
>> a lot of time on that, and I think
that's one of the keys to how we're
going to grow uh, from here on out. Uh,
like recruiting is super important, but
being able to develop your talent, I
think, as you have scale and you have
more people to learn from,
right? That becomes a bigger and bigger
slice of your uh, senior talent pool
over time.
So, when we started off, uh, and you And
for a long time, the vast majority of
our PMs were recruited, you know,
externally.
Today, like in equities business, which
is the most mature of our strategies,
25% in the US are internally promoted.
Uh, and I wouldn't be surprised if that
was 50% in a in a few years, right?
Because now you have more senior PMs
from up-and-coming analysts to learn
from, more programs that they can
participate in to work their way, uh, up
if that's the path that they want to
choose, uh, which, you know, that wasn't
available. Uh, you didn't have the
mentorship and the tools. So, how do you
help people in select?
It's both quantitative and, uh,
qualitative. So, on the quantitative
side, we try to measure as much as we
can. So, we have, uh, data on people's
recommendations,
right? Not just on the ultimate trades,
but the data on the recommendations, and
you see what is the performance, and we
track that, right? Uh, so you try to
disaggregate the performance of the
analyst from the PM and see if who's
driving value, and if it's a particular
analyst doing great, like we want to
make sure that person is getting more
uh, authority, more autonomy, and more
leeway over time, right? More growth
opportunities.
And the best growth opportunity for them
might be with the team that they're on.
They might become a more senior analyst,
they might become a partner on that
portfolio. Uh, or they might raise their
hand at some point and say like, "Hey, I
want to be a PM." And we want to make
sure that we facilitate a path to that
if we agree that they are talented and
part of that is in partnership with the
PM that they're working for. You don't
want the person to just leave and go
somewhere else to take that opportunity.
You want to make sure that they replace
themselves, they work in partnership
with the PM, maybe they co-run something
for a period of time,
and then they have the opportunity to do
their own thing. So, it's it's
definitely a combination of those. And
it's the same thing on the business
side. Like you're always on the lookout
for emerging business leaders who can
manage
others and we have a a lot of leadership
development that we do and also use
utilizing external
coaches as well to help with that. Hm.
That's really interesting. External
coaches. You mentioned mentorship. How
important is mentorship for to the firm
and how significant was it in your own
professional journey?
>> where a partnership culture is really
important, right? So,
I think it's still fairly unusual in in
hedge funds, um
especially in our type of fund.
Uh and we've always wanted to
build a true partnership where people
own real equity in the business.
You know, they buy in with their own
money.
Uh they participate in all the economics
of the business. And we have partners
who are coming from the business side
running a particular department. Uh we
have partners who are managers, heads of
strategies on the investment side, and
we have portfolio managers. And so that
dynamically creates like a culture where
folks are incentivized to make the firm
better, to make someone else better. And
they're obviously much more willing and
excited to be mentors
in those situations. And I think when
you start with that
uh and I started with, you know, two of
my co-founders, uh Scott and Taylor, you
know, 20-plus years ago uh in a
partnership-type structure. And I think
that then flows down through the
organization. And so now today we have
uh mentors for uh you know, interns
coming up, right? And you have mentors
for, you know, younger uh associates in
different areas of the firm. And then it
goes, you know, all the way up and down
the firm. Hm. Really really quite
>> sorry I didn't answer that question. Uh
>> No, but you did Yeah, let's hear about
your your own mentorship. Uh I mean, I
certainly learned a lot from Steve
Schonfeld working with working with him
at the time and got really good
opportunities there.
Uh I think at a young age it was more um
you know, certainly work ethic from from
my folks. Mhm. Uh and then it was a lot
from uh sports, right? I did a lot of uh
you know, basketball and you know, and
taekwondo and things like that.
Uh seeing kind of what was possible.
Like I remember uh as a kid like
watching uh
taekwondo demonstration where our
instructor, uh Master Shim, uh it was
like a very slight Korean guy. He was
probably, I don't know, 140, 130 lbs.
Um
and he punched through a stack of seven
cinder blocks. Mhm. Punched through.
And
you know, seeing that as a kid, you're
And I went to like examine the bricks
after he did that. And like tried to
punch it and I was like, wow, you know,
that hurt.
Um and just
seeing that just kind of shows you kind
of what's possible because every day
after practice you would see the guy sit
there punching a lead slab, Yeah. for,
you know, I don't know, 30 minutes. Wow.
>> Right? And it just adds up over time.
Reminds me of the demonstration, this
old I am, Bruce Lee did with the 1-in
punch. Do you recall that?
>> just showing that to my kids the other
day. Just an inch and he's also 140 if
he weighs soaking wet 140 and
it's amazing the focus and power that
you can create in such a small
>> That's exactly the thing. It's it's
focus and perseverance, right? Mhm.
Really quite quite fascinating. So,
let's talk a little bit about the
current environment. I was kind of
fascinated by something you told your
team,
um
you guys are trading too much and not
investing enough. Unquote. Explain.
I think one of the keys to
enduring success in the money management
business
is finding a balance between trading and
investing.
Right? And you have to be true to your
uh DNA and obviously the type of
firm that that you're at, right? Uh but
within each type of firm and each type
of strategy, uh there's always this um
you know, tension, right? Because you
can't survive in a hedge fund-type
model, you know, just being a long-term
investor.
And you can't really scale in a
significant growing hedge fund being
just a super active trader, right? So,
you need some combination of the two.
And so what we try to do both at the
individual level and at the strategy
level is help folks find that balance.
Part of it is just seeing what's working
and part of it is a lot of statistical
analysis
um that we do
on each of the each of the teams. So,
when I made that comment, we were coming
out of a period where I noticed that
folks were really trading a little bit
too much in the fundamental, you know,
equities business and we're like a
little bit overly focused on each data
point and we're kind of missing the
forest from the trees, right? And we
were chopping ourselves up a little bit
too much, missing some of the bigger
winners,
and um creating a lot of trading
slippage costs. Mhm. So,
we really worked hard with the teams to
find more balance with that. Like find
some positions that you can really be a
longer-term investor in. Doesn't have to
be, you know, years and years, but it
could be, you know, months and quarters
and supposed to days to weeks.
Um and
find
investments where there's multiple ways
to win, where you're not playing for one
particular data point. Uh you're playing
for a whole series of data points that's
going to revalue, you know, that
security over time. And that's been, you
know, very very effective, I would say.
So, how much of this is a function of
the environment that we all find
ourselves in in any given moment? 22 was
a double-digit down year for stocks and
bonds, but it was followed by 23 and 24,
both years back-to-back plus 25% at
least for US equities.
I- if you're shortening up your
investing timeline in a plus 25% year,
is it just as simple as, "Hey, you're
leaving too much money on the table by
>> Well, the answer is a little bit
different because we're running pretty
much market neutral in in almost all the
strategies. So, if you're running market
neutral, whether the market's up 25 or
down 25, like you're always going to
have half your portfolio that's losing
money on a on an absolute basis, but
you're trying Yeah, but you're trying to
make the spread, right? Like you're
trying to make the uh the spread between
your longs and your shorts, right? So,
what influences our um
trading more than the absolute direction
of the market is the volatility in the
market. So, if you're in a period that's
very high vol, uh you're naturally going
to be trading more to manage your risk
and also because you're getting stopped
on things or they're hitting your
targets like fairly quickly. And high
vol is associated with thing with
fundamental events like changing very
quickly. 2022, 500 basis
>> Yeah, or like the spring. So, you you
you're going to trade more during those
periods.
>> Exactly. Versus periods where things are
sort of slowly, you know, trending. And
that's okay, but over the course of the
year, right? Those periods are going to
balance out. Some will be higher vol,
some will be lower vol. You want to find
like the right amount of turnover to
where you can capture your alpha,
capture those relative mispricings, and
move on to the next thing
uh that generate a strong sharp combined
with like enough capacity, right? You
can have a very high sharp and low
capacity. That doesn't really help in a
a scale, you know, hedge fund, right?
You can't your sharp. But you need
enough sharp
to be consistent putting up a P&L that
kind of matters for the firm and that
matters for the team that you're
running. And so for every strategy, like
we try to come up with like, what is a
reasonable range, right? And it might be
higher for, you know, a tech portfolio
manager than, you know, utilities
portfolio manager, right? Um but each of
them should have a range that sort of is
optimum for their style and we try to
help them, you know, find that. So, with
the benefit of hindsight, I'm looking
back at 2024, a fairly low vol year,
"Hey, maybe we should be trading a
little less and holding a little
longer." And then 2025, vol spiked in at
the end of Q1 and into Q2, "All right,
you guys can chop it up a little more."
Is it just that simple or Uh
yes, but I I again, uh I would say the
more nuanced answer would be there's
lots of different types of trades that
each person does. And you don't want any
uh PM doesn't want their portfolio to
just be one type of trade, right? So,
you might have short-term trades,
medium-term trades, long-term trades,
right? Structural trades, tactical
trades, risk mitigation trades, etc.
There's lots of different types of
trades. And people run into problems
when they get too focused on
uh one kind of thing, right? And then
when that thing is no longer working,
it's very hard to then reinvent yourself
cuz you don't have any other, you know,
irons in the fire, right? So, again,
we're trying to run a lot of analysis
and find like, what is the team really
good at? Make sure that's being
expressed in the portfolio. Make sure
there's enough balance of different
types of trades and that they're not
betting on things that they don't really
have views on that can take them out of
the game before the things they do have
views on pay off. Hm.
Do the different teams hedge their own
positions or is that a function of
firmwide risk management and and
somebody else?
>> both. So, each team is responsible for
running within their risk parameters.
So, they'll have um you know, in the
case of of the long short portfolio
manager, they'll have a video risk,
right? How much of your risk is
outside of factor risk, right? And
that should be, you know, 60 70 80% of
your risk depending on the portfolio and
the and the style of the PM. But, it's
basically the vast majority of
somebody's risk is their stock picking
alpha, right? Depending on their skill
and things like picking the right
industry or trading the directionality
of the market around, we might give them
some more room or less room, you know,
to do that. If you're a directional
macro trader, you're going to have
you're not going to have that constraint
because you're
paid to directionally bet on the market,
right? But, you're going to have other
limits like stress limits, right? So, if
your uh directional bets don't work out
and there's a gap tomorrow, uh you know,
how much are you going to lose in a
stress scenario? So, you have to if that
number is too high versus the agreed
upon risk limits, you have to do
something in your portfolio to hedge,
you know, that that risk, right? So,
it's a little bit different for each
type of strategy, but the common
philosophy is you want to
be able to run it to maximize your
return while staying in the game,
right? And delivering a relatively
steady uh source of alpha over time. It
It's interesting because
they're called hedge funds, but many
hedge funds don't hedge. And it sounds
like Baupost really
makes an effort to make sure that as a
risk management approach, anything
that's potentially downside, as you
said, a gap has to be hedged.
>> Yeah, I mean, you're looking for
consistent absolute returns. So, how do
you get that?
Right? You need
specialists who have an edge in a
particular strategy, Mhm.
>> right? And they need a portfolio
construction and risk management
approach that maximizes that edge,
maximizes the capacity of dollars they
can earn off of those
uh advantages that they have, and
minimizing the things that can create
large drawdowns that they don't really
have, you know, edge in betting on. And
so, that's the analysis that you're
constantly running and iterating on with
the teams.
So, I heard a
a fund manager say, "We have no
competition because none of us in our
space have market share. For the most
part, we're all less than 1% market
share." How do you look at the
competitive environment for other
multi-strat firms? It seems like animal
up and you get a decent number, but
there are What are there? 11,000 hedge
funds? Yeah, the way we think about it
is we're not really competing with
11,000 hedge funds. So,
I think what you've seen over the last,
you know, 20-plus years uh is a
consistent market share
uh gain from the larger platform firms,
right? And now I think there's really
like four or five that right? And if you
look at the private equity industry,
it's pretty similar. Like, there's
probably more than 10,000 private equity
funds. But, the vast majority of
dollars, vast majority of alpha, vast
majority of people are really at, you
know, half a dozen.
>> Fat head, long tail. Yeah. So, the hedge
fund industry's really headed in that
same, you know, direction. So, we really
compete with, you know, half a dozen
firms. And now there's also competition
from some of the high frequency firms
that are kind of going upstream to some
of the
longer duration discretionary
strategies. And you know, we're doing
more quantitative stuff going the other
way, right? So, maybe there's a couple
more. Uh but, you're really competing
with half a dozen to a dozen firms that
are running, you know, specialist
strategies at scale. And then everyone
else in those strategies, you kind of
look at as like a generalist, you know,
participant. And it's great to have
generalist participation. We want as
much as possible from, you know, retail,
from other funds, from, you know, prop,
from banks. Like, like the more
liquidity there is, the more generous
participation there is, uh you know, I
think the better for specialized firms.
So, the current environment, kind of
hard to compare to any other era. On the
one hand, we had a fairly robust economy
coming into 2025
following a whole bunch of Fed hikes.
Now we're expected to resume Fed
cutting. By the time this airs, we're
probably 25 basis points lower than
where we are today.
The whole tariff start-stop and now back
to
the litigation. The Supreme Court agreed
to take to that. It looks like inflation
is starting to percolate a little bit as
the labor market seems to soften. How
does the firm look at all of these macro
crosscurrents? Are they significant or
are they just background noise or
somewhere in between? Uh I'd just say
it's a really interesting fluid
environment
particularly for for macro and and long
short equities because there's just so
much change. So, if you think about like
what is the worst environment to be in?
It's not when everything is
clear because when everything is clear,
there's like no volatility, there's no
change. It's hard to get any dispersion.
So, that environment might be good for
passive strategies, but not not good
>> Sideways markets don't really help.
>> Yeah. So, now there's a ton of money
sloshing around uh trying to figure
things out. And that's a that's a great
environment, right? So, if you think
about this year on the macro
perspective, right? You went from
uh a very
you know, positive view in January of
how everything was going to play out to,
you know, kind of the tariff mess and
very pessimistic view of how, you know,
the US was going to play out and and
what was going to happen with markets.
We're down 20% in the S&P briefly.
Um and now you're, you know, right back
up and still like a lot of things kind
of swirling around as to how it's going
to play out. Uh to your point on rates
and inflation, there's been a lot of
change. It's created a lot of relative
value opportunities as you get different
hiking cycles, different cutting cycles
and and different markets. Like, that's
great for macro. Um
in equity land, you have all the changes
not just from the economy, but from AI
and how that's impacting tech, but also
impacting companies that are customers
or going to be run over because of AI.
Like, creates great long short
opportunities. So, I think it's a really
fascinating market. I don't have any
giant, you know, prediction of how
things are going to, you know, play out
tomorrow, but
if you have strong teams who are
on top of the latest data it out a
little bit ahead of the next person,
just tremendous opportunities. Like,
this last week, Oracle reported a
quarter, you know, giant company.
>> Crazy. 37%
>> Right. For for a giant company, right?
>> Amazing.
>> when was the last time, you know, a
company like that moved 35 37%
>> Unbelievable. Right. The dot-com
collapse and it was in the wrong
direction.
>> Yeah. I mean, amazing, right? So, if you
can figure that out or, you know, I
think of some of these, you know,
fintech companies. Circle went public,
right?
>> Mhm. Usually public offerings are like
pretty efficiently priced. You know,
this one goes up 400% after it starts
trading.
Right? And then it goes down 50%, you
know, in a month after that. So, in the
first 3 months, like think of the travel
in the stock. So, amazing opportunities,
right? If if your teams can figure that
out. So, you know, we're out there
working hard doing the research and
you know, figuring out the market. So,
it doesn't sound like you think the AI
theme is overdone, but it certainly is
creating a little more volatility and a
little more opportunities.
Yeah, I think
the reality when we look back, you know,
in 10 years or in 20 years,
uh
in the actual
outcomes that have happened, it's
probably underhyped.
Really?
>> of the stock prices across the board,
like that's harder to say. Like, there's
some that are probably way overhyped.
There's some that are probably under. A
lot of companies have moved from one
bucket to another where they were in a
loser bucket and actually they turns out
maybe they're a winner
or vice versa where people got too
optimistic and maybe they don't really
have anything that's defensible and
differentiated. So, I think there's a
lot of alpha to be gained in figuring
that out. Um and it's hard to find
things that are uh you know, super
bargain priced that have anything to do
with AI. But, in terms of like the
longer term potential to really
transform how people work and how
companies work, I I I think it's
probably underhyped.
I've been fond of
thinking of this in terms of, "Hey, the
Magnificent Seven certainly have been
overhyped." But, the Magnificent 493,
people haven't really been paying
attention to.
>> I mean,
it's a good question. Like, have they
been overhyped, right?
If you look at the dollars
and earnings and cash flow that they're
generating Pretty impressive.
>> caps that they're growing, like
I think they're, you know, executing
amazingly amazingly well. I think it's
quite different from what we had in the
in the dot-com era where companies
weren't really making making money.
Um so, that's one difference. The other
493, I think there's a lot of uh
you know, headwinds and tailwinds. So,
uh some companies are going to figure it
out, Mhm. right? And they're going to
kind of make the leap into the future
and figure out how to be much more
efficient. And you're starting to see
that in some of the commentary on the
earnings calls where
margins inflect positively for, you
know, the way that they figured out how
to leverage the tech. Uh and others are
going to disappear, right? So, I think
it's going to create a lot of
opportunities.
So, the trader in me sees recording this
on the 15th, another set of all-time
highs. I always learned on the desk,
all-time highs are bullish. What what's
your perspective on all time highs?
Yeah, I I think like you have this
two-tiered market that you mentioned
where you have the um
uh kind of tech leaders and and AI
leaders and and everything else. The
everything else uh companies definitely
got hurt more with all the
uh tariff ups and downs um
and inflation ups and downs earlier this
year. That seems to be certainly calming
down.
Uh and the um
uh
partially, you know, top-down is calming
down and partially bottom-up. Companies
are figuring out, you know, how to
navigate these things and maybe it's not
as uh as troublesome as they thought. Um
and so uh
you're seeing like better execution and
probably a little bit more uh uh
positivity from companies than you were
seeing, you know, certainly 6 months
ago. And that's starting to get
reflected and the market's broadening
out a little bit. Uh but, you know, the
largest, you know, tech companies
certainly have uh you know, tremendous
advantages that they're continuing to
press.
So, last of our regular questions, what
are traders and investors not thinking
about or talking about, but perhaps
should be? What topics, assets,
geography, policy, data points,
what's getting overlooked, but
shouldn't?
I think it's I don't know if it's
getting overlooked, but I would say um
when you think about AI,
where it's going, what are the
ramifications for every type of company,
right? So, at the moment,
while AI is making us much more
productive and efficient, uh we haven't
let go of one person because AI has
automated their job, right? Like we're
just hiring more AI people. Mhm. Right?
But, if you look out, you know, 5 years
from now, is that still going to be the
case? You know, probably not, right?
Like some jobs are going to get
automated. Right? And, you know, we're
kind of on the
you know, high end, I would say, of uh
you know, skills that are necessary to
to work at a leading hedge fund. If you
think of like a typical company where
there's a lot of folks doing like very
bureaucratic type of things, like a lot
of
pretty mundane tasks, like all that
stuff is going to be automated. I don't
know if it's in a year or in 5 years,
like but somewhere in that time frame,
it's going to be automated. Yeah, we're
starting to see that already with with
the entry-level jobs. Under 30,
unemployment is like 9.9% double regular
unemployment.
>> Yeah, exactly. And so as you think about
that, like what does that mean for every
type of company, right? If you if you're
a
a company that can really harness that
and you could produce your products uh
your services uh at a much uh lower
price point, and you figured that out
ahead of the competition, like your
margins might explode to the upside. On
the other hand, if everybody in your
space is doing that, like maybe your
margins are actually going to collapse,
right? Uh because everybody's going to
drive down pricing. And then how does it
flow downstream? Like do you need as
much office space if you're going to
have less people in a particular area,
right? So like all these kind of things,
I think everyone is focused
uh because there is a lot of volatility,
everyone is focused very much on like
the next quarter. But if you think out,
you know, two, three, four years, like
how's the space going to look? Right?
And that's kind of the balance of
trading and investing that we're, you
know, you got to have one eye on each.
Hm. And and before I get to my favorite
questions that I ask all of my guests, I
have to ask you about some of the
philanthropy you participate in. Tell us
a little bit about the Atlas um
fellowship and some of the other things
that you've been doing over the past
>> Sure. So, this was a a program that my
wife Rebecca and I started um I think
this is 5 years ago now.
Uh we were looking to start uh an
initiative to help um
uh kids go to college who were a bit
under-resourced, maybe first in their
family to go to college uh
um etc. And as we're looking at these uh
scholarship opportunities, particularly
in finance, uh we couldn't find any
program that
uh had a combination of
uh internships with scholarships.
Um there were some that had uh ones that
were captive to a particular company,
but then you were, you know, beholden to
work just at that company forever. Uh
but there wasn't anything that was
diverse, right? Where someone could get
real exposure across the industry. And
so that's what we started with with
Atlas Fellows where we uh
give kids uh
who are super bright, driven,
merit-based scholarships, right? So,
these are like top students in the
class.
Um a lot of times
from diverse backgrounds, from uh with
no connections to finance, right? And
they get scholarships of up to 20 grand
a year for 4 years.
Uh and in addition to that, they get
fully paid internships at finance firms
uh for all 4 years.
>> Not just your firm, but a broad variety.
>> Exactly. So, we take them their their
first internship when they're coming out
of high school. Uh and that one is
typically done at BAM.
Uh and they work either on our investing
teams, our data teams, our tech teams,
our business teams. Uh and then the next
year they go to work at a bank or they
go to work at another hedge fund or they
go to work at a prop firm or a VC firm.
Uh and every year they they rotate. And
we just had the first cohort graduate
last year, they all got jobs in finance.
Um
some in Chicago, some in New York. Uh
uh and employers are really competing
over the kids. Like they're super smart,
driven, passionate uh kids and now
they've had 4 years of finance
internships uh at top firms. So, I I
think it's working really well and we're
working to uh to scale it up.
>> They they become a hot hot commodity.
Yeah, exactly. And just like the fund,
like now we got 100 kids in the program
and and we're trying to really scale it
up to hundreds. Wow, that's great. All
right, so let's jump to our favorite
questions that we ask all of our guests,
starting with we talked about mentorship
at BAM. Let's talk about who were your
mentors, who shaped your career? You
mentioned Steve Schoenfeld. He had to be
significant. Tell us about him and
anybody else that made a difference.
>> I think what what Steven did really well
uh at the time of the firm was it was a
super um
entrepreneurial type of environment.
Everyone was a kind of in in business,
running your own little business, right?
Uh and most folks uh kind of stayed as
one-man shops, right?
Uh as a one-man
trading unit, right? Uh
but I had the oppor- opportunity uh to
kind of build that into a unit of, you
know, five and then 10 and then 20 and
then 30 and then, you know, then we spun
off. So,
um just the the freedom and support, you
know, to to do that was really helpful,
right? Um and then a lot of uh business
learnings from, you know, seeing how he
allocated to different people, seeing
how they managed risk, like that was
very, you know, very helpful. And then
philosophically, I would say the biggest
impact was uh reading um Atlas Shrugged
in college, mhm, uh which I read in an
English class uh in in college and
uh that really kind of articulated a uh
a moral, you know, philosophical
uh framework around which uh I think uh
it
makes it much easier to build a
successful business, right?
>> Hence the name Atlas. Yeah, exactly.
It's the name of our fund and the name
of um you know, our our scholarship
program. Uh
I think a lot of times people have all
sorts of conflicts with, you know, being
successful uh and at the same time uh
you know, being a good person and and uh
helping uh the world. And I don't
actually think there's any conflicts.
And that uh
objective philosophy in her work like
really does a good job of laying that uh
scaffolding for people
uh and I think it makes it, you know,
much more fulfilling and less conflicted
to also be uh be successful in all
realms.
So, since you mentioned Atlas Shrugged,
let's talk about um books. What are some
of your favorites? What are you reading
right now? Yeah, that that's definitely
the number one. Uh the current one
that's on my bookshelf is a fun one. Um
it's uh
from this uh explorer. I didn't know
there were explorers anymore, but there
are apparently and we had uh this guy
Mike Horn at our uh VC conference. We do
like a public-private VC conference
every year called uh Elevate. And we had
him as a guest speaker.
And we we had two guest speakers this
year. We had Steve Kerr, the coach of
the Warriors and and we had Mike Horn.
Steve went first and he was amazing and
had great, you know, stories on teamwork
and and uh collaboration and work ethic
and Michael Jordan stories and stuff,
Kerr's stories. So, it was great. And
then Mike had to follow him and I was
like, "Oh my god, how is this guy going
to follow Steve Kerr?"
And uh my partner Scott uh brought him
brought him on and and uh Scott's great
at finding like uh talent that's
you know, other folks uh haven't uh
discovered yet. And this guy, uh you
know, has circumvented the equator
several times uh around the world, uh
you know, self-powered walking etc. He's
gone to North Pole, South Pole, swam the
Amazon, like all these, you know, insane
uh stories one after another. Uh and
he's uh he's got a book called uh I
think it's called uh Nothing Is
Impossible or something along those
lines.
Uh and you start like you shake hands
with this guy and he's not like a
particularly big guy, but he like
crushed my hand.
And I go, "Mike, why how do you get he's
60 years old. "How do you get this
handshake?"
>> Oh my god. And he's like, "Well, I, you
know, kitesurfed across the Antarctica
and that involves uh you know, holding a
kite across, you know, frozen uh
Antarctica for 14 hours a day as this
huge wind is pulling you along." And
it's like, "Okay, that's that's how you
get the Builds up a little grip
strength.
>> you get some grip strength.
>> Yeah. Uh but he had like these amazing
survival stories and just mental
fortitude stories that I think really
relate to uh trading and investing.
Uh so he was an awesome speaker and so I
just got his book. Huh. Um have you ever
read Endurance, the Shackleton story?
>> Yes, I read it, watched the movie. That
one was hard to sit through. Uh the book
is just like it it couldn't be fiction
cuz nothing is believe it's so amazing,
it had to be real. Yeah, this is along
those lines, but less abusive and much
more fun.
Um let's talk about streaming. Anything
interesting that you're watching or
listening to these days?
Uh, I mean, shows I like uh I I really
enjoyed the uh Three-Body Problem that
was on Netflix. That was a fun one. And
then
>> The book is a tough slog, but
>> I read the book actually afterwards. Uh,
so it's a little challenging cuz it's
originally in Chinese, yeah.
>> Chinese and translated, but but the show
is really good.
>> really good. And and the and the books
The books like the creativity in the
books are really fun.
Um, so that was a good one. You know,
Yellowstone
uh is great. So, usual ones there. I'm
listening to I think podcasts are like
the greatest invention in the last, you
know, 5 10 years of of um not that that
they weren't around before, but like
popularized in terms of being able to
just expand your your knowledge set in a
very efficient way. So, I try to listen
to as many as I can. I I listen to, you
know, a lot of yours. I listen to a a
lot of Tim Ferriss's. He's got all sorts
of super interesting people on there.
The Invest Like the Best Ones. Uh,
there's a ton on there. So, there's a
lot of finance ones. There's a lot of VC
ones I enjoy. I was just listening to
one uh that had Vinod Khosla and then
another one with Marc Andreessen.
They're just like super
thought-provoking. Uh, and so I I
encourage like all our young people
coming up that that ask just, you know,
you have this like amazing resource you
could tap, you know, Spotify and
and uh you got, you know, a thousand
different podcasts from world's best
people in every field that you can
listen to sharing their insights. Well,
there's no excuse to be bored these
days.
>> No, it's amazing. I remember when I was
coming up and I wanted to hear like how
do hedge funds make money, right? Like,
you couldn't figure that out. Like, if
you had no connectivity to a hedge fund,
like, how are you going to figure that
out? You read Market Wizards and now
what, right? But besides uh
besides that reading all the books that
are available now like the podcasts like
amazing resource. Uh, absolutely. Our
final two questions. What sort of advice
would you give to a recent college grad
interested in a career in either
trading, investing, multi-strat hedge
funds? I mean, one is just follow your
curiosity, uh which hopefully leads to
uh a passion of something that you want
to really do,
right? Um, don't go into finance hedge
funds, whatever it is, because your your
friend is making a lot of money, right?
Like, you got to be interested in the
work. Like, you got to be
driven and curious and hopefully
passionate about what it is that you're
doing because
um
you know, it's like
pro sports or anything else. Like, just
because, you know, LeBron makes a lot of
money doesn't mean you're going to go
make a lot of money playing basketball,
um you know, one, you know, he's 6'11,
but besides that, like, he's put in a
lot of work over the years, right? And
it's because he loves the game of
basketball, right? If you don't love it,
you're not going to put in the work. And
in trading, for sure, if you're if you
don't love the process and you don't
love sitting there looking at the screen
and trying to figure things out, uh
you're not going to survive the
emotional ups and downs cuz there's lots
of downs in addition to the ups when
things work out. So, that's the first
thing. The second thing I would say is
go to a firm
that's growing, right? And where there's
a culture that where you can learn from
others, right? Where you can get good
mentorship. There's top people you can
learn from.
Um, and you'll have some amount of
access to be able to to do that. The
particular thing that they're trading or
investing or how they're doing it or
like that's a lot less important cuz you
might change, the company might change.
And then the third thing is like once
you're in a seat that's a decent seat,
uh you know, ask for feedback. Like,
here's what I did.
Uh, here's what I think I could have
done.
You know, what do you think? Right?
Don't ask for feedback when the market
opens or the person's like in the middle
of a
you know, disastrous day.
Uh, but when things are quiet, right?
Early, late, right? Lunch hour.
Like, you know, get get feedback
proactively, right? Don't sit around
waiting for your year-end review
uh to see how things are going. And, you
know, iterate it together with uh you
know, the people that you're working
with. And our final question. What do
you know about the world of capital
markets, trading, investing today that
would have been useful in 1994 when you
were first starting out?
I think the things that we've been doing
the last, you know, 5 years uh I wish I
had figured those out earlier. So,
um
investing more aggressively across
strategies, right? Uh, I think we were
too equity heavy for too long. Uh, we
weren't serious enough about how do you
build those strategies outside of
equities and not serious enough about
hiring top people to
manage those areas and then building
like all the tech and the infrastructure
that you needed to really be competitive
and leading in those areas. So, wish I
would have figured that out a little bit
a little bit earlier and pushed at it
harder.
Um, but I think it's on the on the right
trajectory now. Dmitry, thank you for
being so generous with your time. This
has been absolutely fascinating. We have
been speaking with Dmitry Baljasny,
co-founder of Baljasny Asset Management.
If you enjoyed this conversation, well,
check out any of the 550 we've done over
the past 11 years. You can find those at
iTunes, Spotify, Bloomberg,
here on YouTube as well. Um,
check them out. They're really a great
collection of resources. And be sure to
check out my new book, How Not to
Invest, the ideas, numbers, and behavior
that destroy wealth and how to avoid
them at your favorite bookstore. I would
be remiss if I did not thank the crack
team that helps us put these
conversations together each week. Alexis
Noriega and Anna Luke are my producers.
Sage Baalman is the head of podcast here
at Bloomberg. Uh, Shawn Russo is my
researcher.
I'm Barry Ritholtz. You've been
listening to Masters in Business on
Bloomberg Radio.